docs/source/message_signing.rst, before:

Configuring Secure Messaging
============================
.. _send-message-using-https:

How to send messages using self-signed Digital Certificate
----------------------------------------------------------

To enable server authentication in Tomcat, a keystore and public certificate have to be generated and configured in Hermes. 
The details of this procedure are shown below.

.. _generate-cert:

How to generate a PKCS12 keystore and certificate
-------------------------------------------------
To create a keystore and certificate, :program:`Keytool` or :program:`OpenSSL` can be used.


Using Keytool
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
:program:`Keytool` is provided with Java SDK.


1. Invoke ``keytool`` with parameters.

   .. code-block:: sh
      
      keytool -genkey -alias {key-alias} -keyalg RSA -keystore {filepath-and-name-of-keystore} -storetype pkcs12 -storepass {password} -keypass {password}
   
   The same password value is used for ``keypass`` and ``storepass`` in this command.

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/keytool_command.png


#. Input more detailed information.

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/keytool_command_detail.png

   After entering the information, a keystore will be created. It can be verified using :program:`Keytool`.

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      keytool -list -keystore {filepath-and-name-of-keystore} -storetype pkcs12

   The password specified in the ``storepass`` attribute is needed to access the keystore.

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/keytool_list_keystore.png


#. Export certificate.

   The private key has been generated and stored in the keystore, but a public certificate is still needed for the receiver to verify signatures.

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      keytool -exportcert -alias {key-alias} -keystore {filepath-and-name-of-keystore} -storetype pkcs12 -file {filepath-and-name-of-certificate}

   Enter the password specified in the ``storepass`` attribute to access the keystore.

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/keytool_generate_certificate.png

   The certificate can be verified with the following command:

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      keytool -printcert -file {filepath-and-name-of-certificate}

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/keytool_printcert.png


Using OpenSSL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
:program:`OpenSSL` can be found `here <https://www.openssl.org/>`_.


1. Generate private key.

   Invoke ``openssl`` to enter the :program:`OpenSSL` environment, then execute the following:

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      genrsa -out {filepath-and-name-of-key} {length-in-bits}

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/openssl_genrsa_1024.png


#. Generate certificate signing request.

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      req -new -key {filepath-and-name-of-key} -out {filepath-and-name-of-signing-request}

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/openssl_create_csr.png


#. Generate self-signed certificate.

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      x509 -req -days {number-of-days-valid} -in {filepath-and-name-of-signing-request} -signkey {filepath-and-name-of-key} -sha1 -out {filepath-and-name-of-certificate}

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/openssl_gen_cert.png


#. Export to keystore in PKCS12 format.

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      pkcs12 -name {key-alias} -export -in {filepath-and-name-of-certificate} -inkey {filepath-and-name-of-key} -out {filepath-and-name-of-keystore}

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/openssl_pkcs12.png

.. _configure-hermes:

How to configure Hermes to sign and verify message
--------------------------------------------------
1. Edit `<hermes_home>/plugins/corvus-ebms/conf/hk/hku/cecid/ebms/spa/conf/ebms.module.xml` 
   , and fill in the details of the p12 keystore created above.

2. In the "sending" partnership, set "Signing Required?" as yes.

3. In the "receiving" partnership, upload the certificate generated in above step as "Certificate For Verification"

.. _support-params:

Supported Parameters
--------------------
The following key pair algorithms and signature algorithms have been tested:

Key pair algorithm (``keyalg``)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

+-------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|``DSA``      | Generates keypairs for the Digital Signature Algorithm      |
+-------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|``RSA`` [1]_ | Generates keypairs for the RSA algorithm (Signature/Cipher) |
+-------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+

.. [1] ``RSA`` has been test with ``keysize=`` 1024, 2048, 4096.

Signature algorithm (``sigalg``)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|``SHA1withRSA``   | The signature algorithm with SHA-* and the RSA encryption     |
+------------------+ algorithm as defined in the OSI Interoperability Workship,    |
|``SHA256withRSA`` | using the padding conversions described in PKCS1.             |
+------------------+                                                               |
|``SHA512withRSA`` |                                                               |
+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|``MD5withRSA``    | The MD2/MD5 with RSA encryption algorithm which users the     |
+------------------+ MD2/MD5 digest algorithm and RSA to cread and verify RSA      |
|``MD2withRSA``    | digital signatures as defined in PKCS1.                       |
+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|``SHA1withDSA``   | The DSA with SHA-1 signature algorithm which uses the         |
|                  | SHA-1 digest algorithm and DSA to create and verify DSA       |
|             	   | digital signatures as defined in FIPS PUB 186.                |
+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+


Parameter combinations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The following combinations of algorithms and parameters have been tested with ebMS and AS2:

ebMS
""""

+------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| tool                   | Keytool                                       | OpenSSL                                       |
+------------------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
| keysize                | 1024          | 2048          | 4096          | 1024          | 2048          | 4096          |
+===========+============+===============+===============+===============+===============+===============+===============+
| ``RSA``   | ``SHA1``   | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``SHA256`` | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``MD5``    | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``SHA512`` | not supported | ok            | not supported | not supported | ok            | not supported |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``MD2``    | not supported | ok            | not supported | not supported | not supported | not supported |
+-----------+------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
| ``DSA``   | ``SHA1``   | ok            | not supported | not supported | ok            | not supported | not supported |
+-----------+------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+

AS2
"""

+------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| tool                   | Keytool                                       | OpenSSL                                       |
+------------------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
| keysize                | 1024          | 2048          | 4096          | 1024          | 2048          | 4096          |
+===========+============+===============+===============+===============+===============+===============+===============+
| ``RSA``   | ``SHA1``   | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``SHA256`` | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``MD5``    | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | not supported |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``SHA512`` | not supported | ok            | not supported | not supported | ok            | not supported |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``MD2``    | not supported | ok            | not supported | not supported | not supported | not supported |
+-----------+------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
| ``DSA``   | ``SHA1``   | not supported | not supported | not supported | not supported | not supported | not supported |
+-----------+------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+

See also
--------
*  :ref:`configuration-for-secure-messaging`
* `Wiki Public Key Infrastructure (Wiki) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_key_infrastructure>`_
* `Public Key Infrastructure (FreeMagazine) <http://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/PKI>`_

Commit message:

Add partnership.png in message signing

docs/source/message_signing.rst, after:

Configuring Secure Messaging
============================
.. _send-message-using-https:

How to send messages using Self Signed Certificate
--------------------------------------------------

To sign an outgoing message by Self Signed Certificate, a keystore and public certificate have to be generated and configured in Hermes. 
The details of this procedure are shown below.

.. _generate-cert:

How to generate a PKCS12 keystore and certificate
-------------------------------------------------
To create a keystore and certificate, :program:`Keytool` or :program:`OpenSSL` can be used.


Using Keytool
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
:program:`Keytool` is provided with Java SDK.


1. Invoke ``keytool`` with parameters.

   .. code-block:: sh
      
      keytool -genkey -alias {key-alias} -keyalg RSA -keystore {filepath-and-name-of-keystore} -storetype pkcs12 -storepass {password} -keypass {password}
   
   The same password value is used for ``keypass`` and ``storepass`` in this command.

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/keytool_command.png


#. Input more detailed information.

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/keytool_command_detail.png

   After entering the information, a keystore will be created. It can be verified using :program:`Keytool`.

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      keytool -list -keystore {filepath-and-name-of-keystore} -storetype pkcs12

   The password specified in the ``storepass`` attribute is needed to access the keystore.

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/keytool_list_keystore.png


#. Export certificate.

   The private key has been generated and stored in the keystore, but a public certificate is still needed for the receiver to verify signatures.

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      keytool -exportcert -alias {key-alias} -keystore {filepath-and-name-of-keystore} -storetype pkcs12 -file {filepath-and-name-of-certificate}

   Enter the password specified in the ``storepass`` attribute to access the keystore.

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/keytool_generate_certificate.png

   The certificate can be verified with the following command:

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      keytool -printcert -file {filepath-and-name-of-certificate}

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/keytool_printcert.png


Using OpenSSL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
:program:`OpenSSL` can be found `here <https://www.openssl.org/>`_.


1. Generate private key.

   Invoke ``openssl`` to enter the :program:`OpenSSL` environment, then execute the following:

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      genrsa -out {filepath-and-name-of-key} {length-in-bits}

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/openssl_genrsa_1024.png


#. Generate certificate signing request.

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      req -new -key {filepath-and-name-of-key} -out {filepath-and-name-of-signing-request}

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/openssl_create_csr.png


#. Generate self-signed certificate.

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      x509 -req -days {number-of-days-valid} -in {filepath-and-name-of-signing-request} -signkey {filepath-and-name-of-key} -sha1 -out {filepath-and-name-of-certificate}

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/openssl_gen_cert.png


#. Export to keystore in PKCS12 format.

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      pkcs12 -name {key-alias} -export -in {filepath-and-name-of-certificate} -inkey {filepath-and-name-of-key} -out {filepath-and-name-of-keystore}

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/openssl_pkcs12.png

.. _configure-hermes:

How to configure Hermes to sign and verify message
--------------------------------------------------

#. Edit `<hermes_home>/plugins/corvus-ebms/conf/hk/hku/cecid/ebms/spa/conf/ebms.module.xml` 
   , and fill in the details of the p12 keystore created above.

#. In the "sending" partnership, set "Signing Required?" as yes.

#. In the "receiving" partnership, upload the Certificate created above as "Certificate For Verification"

   .. image:: /_static/images/message_signing/partnership.png

.. _support-params:

Supported Parameters
--------------------
The following key pair algorithms and signature algorithms have been tested:

Key pair algorithm (``keyalg``)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

+-------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|``DSA``      | Generates keypairs for the Digital Signature Algorithm      |
+-------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|``RSA`` [1]_ | Generates keypairs for the RSA algorithm (Signature/Cipher) |
+-------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+

.. [1] ``RSA`` has been test with ``keysize=`` 1024, 2048, 4096.

Signature algorithm (``sigalg``)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|``SHA1withRSA``   | The signature algorithm with SHA-* and the RSA encryption     |
+------------------+ algorithm as defined in the OSI Interoperability Workship,    |
|``SHA256withRSA`` | using the padding conversions described in PKCS1.             |
+------------------+                                                               |
|``SHA512withRSA`` |                                                               |
+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|``MD5withRSA``    | The MD2/MD5 with RSA encryption algorithm which users the     |
+------------------+ MD2/MD5 digest algorithm and RSA to cread and verify RSA      |
|``MD2withRSA``    | digital signatures as defined in PKCS1.                       |
+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|``SHA1withDSA``   | The DSA with SHA-1 signature algorithm which uses the         |
|                  | SHA-1 digest algorithm and DSA to create and verify DSA       |
|             	   | digital signatures as defined in FIPS PUB 186.                |
+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+


Parameter combinations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The following combinations of algorithms and parameters have been tested with ebMS and AS2:

ebMS
""""

+------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| tool                   | Keytool                                       | OpenSSL                                       |
+------------------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
| keysize                | 1024          | 2048          | 4096          | 1024          | 2048          | 4096          |
+===========+============+===============+===============+===============+===============+===============+===============+
| ``RSA``   | ``SHA1``   | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``SHA256`` | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``MD5``    | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``SHA512`` | not supported | ok            | not supported | not supported | ok            | not supported |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``MD2``    | not supported | ok            | not supported | not supported | not supported | not supported |
+-----------+------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
| ``DSA``   | ``SHA1``   | ok            | not supported | not supported | ok            | not supported | not supported |
+-----------+------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+

AS2
"""

+------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| tool                   | Keytool                                       | OpenSSL                                       |
+------------------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
| keysize                | 1024          | 2048          | 4096          | 1024          | 2048          | 4096          |
+===========+============+===============+===============+===============+===============+===============+===============+
| ``RSA``   | ``SHA1``   | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``SHA256`` | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``MD5``    | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | ok            | not supported |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``SHA512`` | not supported | ok            | not supported | not supported | ok            | not supported |
|           +------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|           | ``MD2``    | not supported | ok            | not supported | not supported | not supported | not supported |
+-----------+------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
| ``DSA``   | ``SHA1``   | not supported | not supported | not supported | not supported | not supported | not supported |
+-----------+------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+

See also
--------
*  :ref:`configuration-for-secure-messaging`
* `Wiki Public Key Infrastructure (Wiki) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_key_infrastructure>`_
* `Public Key Infrastructure (FreeMagazine) <http://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/PKI>`_
