docs/source/quickstart.rst, before:

Quickstart
==========

Install Hermes with Docker
--------------------------

#. Install the `Docker Engine <https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/>`_.
#. Run the Docker container for Hermes database (MySQL).

   .. code-block:: sh

      docker run --name hermes_db -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=corvus -d cecid/hermes_db:2.1

#. Run the Docker container for Hermes application server (Tomcat).
   
   .. code-block:: sh

      docker run --name hermes_app --link hermes_db:db -p 8080:8080 -d cecid/hermes_app:2.1

#. Log in to the Hermes administration console at ``http://localhost:8080/corvus/admin/home`` (username:``corvus``, password:``corvus``) to check if Hermes is up and running.

.. note::

   1. When it is the first time to run a container, the Docker image will be downloaded from the `Docker Hub <https://hub.docker.com/>`_. The Docker images are large. The sizes of ``cecid/hermes_db`` and ``cecid/hermes_app`` are about 400MB and 1.4GB. 
   2. You may need the administrator or root privilage to execute ``docker run``.


Loopback Messaging with Sample Clients
--------------------------------------

Preparation
^^^^^^^^^^^

**Linux / Unix:**

#. Install `Java 1.8 <http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html>`_ or above, or `OpenJDK 8 <http://openjdk.java.net/projects/jdk8/>`_ or above.
#. Download and extract the :download:`Hermes sample clients <_static/Hermes_client_sample.zip>` to a working directory :file:`{<WorkDir>}`
#. Set environment variable :envvar:`JAVA_HOME` to the directory where Java is installed.
#. Change the permissions of all shell-script files under ``<WorkDir>`` to be executable with the following command:
   
   .. code-block:: sh

      chmod 755 sample/*.sh

**Windows:**

#. Install `Java 1.8 <http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html>`_ or above.
#. Download and extract the :download:`Hermes simple clients  <_static/Hermes_client_sample.zip>` to a working directory :file:`{<WorkDir>`}`.
#. Set the environment variable :envvar:`JAVA_HOME` to the directory where Java is installed.


Create Loopback Partnership
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Linux / Unix:**

.. code-block:: sh

    cd <WorkDir>/sample
    ./ebms-partnership.sh

**Windows:**

.. code-block:: doscon

   cd <WorkDir>\sample
   ebms-partnership.bat

You will see the following message.

.. code-block:: none
   
   ----------------------------------------------------
         EBMS Partnership Maintainance Tool      
   ----------------------------------------------------
   Initialize logger .. 
   Importing EBMS partnership parameters ...
   Importing EBMS administrative sending parameters ... 
   Initialize EBMS HTTP data service client... 
   log4j:WARN No appenders could be found for logger    (org.apache.commons.httpclient.HttpClient).
   log4j:WARN Please initialize the log4j system properly.
   Sending    EBMS HTTP partnership maintenance request ... 
   
                       Sending Done:                   
   ----------------------------------------------------
   The result status : Operation executed successfully.
   Please view log for details .. 


Send Loopback Message
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Linux / Unix:**

.. code-block:: sh

   cd <WorkDir>/sample
   ./ebms-send.sh

**Windows:**

.. code-block:: doscon

   cd <WorkDir>\sample
   ebms-send.bat

This program sends a request attached with the payload named :file:`testpayload` under the directory :file:`<WorkDir>/sample/config/ebms-send` to local Hermes server. You will see the following message.

.. code-block:: none
   
   ----------------------------------------------------
             EbMS sender web service client            
   ----------------------------------------------------
   Initialize Logger ... 
   Importing  ebMS sending parameters ... ./config/ebms-send/ebms-request.xml
   Importing  ebMS partnership parameters ... ./config/ebms-partnership.xml
   Initialize ebMS web service client... 
   Adding     payload in the ebMS message... 
   Sending    ebMS sending request ... 
   
                       Sending Done:                   
   ----------------------------------------------------
   New message id: 20170204-090520-45900@172.17.0.3


Query Message History
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Linux / Unix:**

.. code-block:: sh

   cd <WorkDir>/sample
   ./ebms-history.sh

**Windows:**

.. code-block:: doscon

   cd <WorkDir>\sample
   ebms-history.bat

This program lists all sent and received messages. You will see the following message.

.. code-block:: none
   
   ----------------------------------------------------
            EbMS Message History Queryer      
   ----------------------------------------------------
   Initialize Logger ... 
   Importing  ebMS config parameters ... ./config/ebms-history/ebms-request.xml
   Initialize ebMS messsage history queryer ... 
   Sending ebMS message history query request ... 
   
                       Sending Done:                   
   ----------------------------------------------------
   ----------------------------------------------------
            EbMS Message Query Result          
   ----------------------------------------------------
   0	| Message id : 20170204-090520-45900@172.17.0.3 | MessageBox: outbox
   1	| Message id : 20170204-090520-45900@172.17.0.3 | MessageBox: inbox
   ----------------------------------------------------
   
   Select message (0 - 1), -1 to exit: 0


Enter :kbd:`0` to check the sent message and the following message will be displayed: 

.. code-block:: none
   
   Sending    EBMS-status sending request ... 

                    Sending Done:                   
   ----------------------------------------------------
   Query Message ID          : 20170204-090520-45900@172.17.0.3
   Query Message Status      : DL
   Query Message Status Desc : Message was sent.
   ACK   Message ID          : null
   ACK   Message Status      : null
   ACK   Message Status Desc : null
   
   ----------------------------------------------------
   
   Please view log for details .. 


Download Payload of Received Message
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Linux / Unix:**

.. code-block:: sh

   cd <WorkDir>/sample
   ./ebms-history.sh


**Windows:**

.. code-block:: doscon

   cd <WorkDir>\sample
   ebms-history.bat

You will see the following message.

.. code-block:: none
   
   ----------------------------------------------------
            EbMS Message History Queryer      
   ----------------------------------------------------
   Initialize Logger ... 
   Importing  ebMS config parameters ... ./config/ebms-history/ebms-request.xml
   Initialize ebMS messsage history queryer ... 
   Sending ebMS message history query request ... 
   
                       Sending Done:                   
   ----------------------------------------------------
   ----------------------------------------------------
            EbMS Message Query Result          
   ----------------------------------------------------
   0	| Message id : 20170204-090520-45900@172.17.0.3 | MessageBox: outbox
   1	| Message id : 20170204-090520-45900@172.17.0.3 | MessageBox: inbox
   ----------------------------------------------------
   
   Select message (0 - 1), -1 to exit: 1
   Currrent Dir: /home/cecid/WorkDir/sample
   Please provide the folder to store the payload(s): 
   Initialize ebMS receiving web service client... 
   Sending    ebMS receiving request ... for 20170204-090520-45900@172.17.0.3
   ----------------------------------------------------
   
   Please view log for details .. 

#. Enter :kbd:`1` to select the received message and you will be asked to the folder to store the payloads. 

#. Press enter to save the payload in the current folder. A file named :file:`ebms.{<timestamp>}@127.0.1.1.Payload.0` will be downloaded, where :file:`{<timestamp>}` indicates the time :program:`ebms-send` was executed. 

#. Open the payload file and you will see the following content:

.. code-block:: none

   This is an sample message.
   
                     :#+,                                               
                    +'++                                                
                  ,++'+                                                 
                 ++'+#`                                                 
               ;+''++             `           `           `             
              #++''+;`        `++++` ``,:;::   `,::::  ++  ;+'++;       
            ;++''+++         '++++#` `;:;;;;  `;;;;;;  ++  ;'+++++:     
           +'''''++:``;;;:   +#`     ,;;     `::,      ++  ;+   `+#     
          +''''''''  ;:;;;: ;+:      ;;``     ;;`      ++  ;+`   ++`    
         ,+'+''''++ .:;:;;; ;+.     `;;,.,,, `;;`      ++  ;+    ;'.    
         ''+''''''+`,;;;::;`'+......`;::;;;;`.;;``..`.`+#``;+``..:+:`..`
         `++'''+'++ `;;;;;; ''`      :;.```` `:;       ++  ;+`   :'.    
          ;'''+'''+` ;::;;. :':`     ;; `     ;;       ++  ;+    +'`    
           :+'+'+''+  .,,` ` ++`     ::,````  ::,````  ++  ;+   .+#     
         `   #'+'''+`        ''++++` `;;;:;;  `;;:;;;  ++  ;'+++++,`    
              ,++'''#         .;;''`   .:::,`  `,:::,  ''  :'''';       
                +'+''; `                          `                     
                `,+''',                                                 
                   '''+.                                                
                    `+++`                                               
                     :+:     
                     
   This is an sample message.

Commit message:

add descriptions on how to locate the Java home directory on Ubuntu

docs/source/quickstart.rst, after:

Quickstart
==========

Install Hermes with Docker
--------------------------

#. Install the `Docker Engine <https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/>`_.
#. Run the Docker container for Hermes database (MySQL).

   .. code-block:: sh

      docker run --name hermes_db -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=corvus -d cecid/hermes_db:2.1

#. Run the Docker container for Hermes application server (Tomcat).
   
   .. code-block:: sh

      docker run --name hermes_app --link hermes_db:db -p 8080:8080 -d cecid/hermes_app:2.1

#. Log in to the Hermes administration console at ``http://localhost:8080/corvus/admin/home`` (username:``corvus``, password:``corvus``) to check if Hermes is up and running.

.. note::

   1. When it is the first time to run a container, the Docker image will be downloaded from the `Docker Hub <https://hub.docker.com/>`_. The Docker images are large. The sizes of ``cecid/hermes_db`` and ``cecid/hermes_app`` are about 400MB and 1.4GB. 
   2. You may need the administrator or root privilage to execute ``docker run``.


Loopback Messaging with Sample Clients
--------------------------------------

Preparation
^^^^^^^^^^^

**Linux / Unix:**

#. Install `Java 1.8 <http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html>`_ or above, or `OpenJDK 8 <http://openjdk.java.net/projects/jdk8/>`_ or above.
#. Download and extract the :download:`Hermes sample clients <_static/Hermes_client_sample.zip>` to a working directory :file:`{<WorkDir>}`
#. Set environment variable :envvar:`JAVA_HOME` to the directory where Java is installed. On Ubuntu, you may use the following command to find the Java home directory, e.g., :file:`/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64`.

   .. code-block:: sh

      update-java-alternatives -l
#. Change the permissions of all shell-script files under ``<WorkDir>`` to be executable with the following command:
   
   .. code-block:: sh

      chmod 755 sample/*.sh

**Windows:**

#. Install `Java 1.8 <http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html>`_ or above.
#. Download and extract the :download:`Hermes simple clients  <_static/Hermes_client_sample.zip>` to a working directory :file:`{<WorkDir>`}`.
#. Set the environment variable :envvar:`JAVA_HOME` to the directory where Java is installed. 


Create Loopback Partnership
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Linux / Unix:**

.. code-block:: sh

    cd <WorkDir>/sample
    ./ebms-partnership.sh

**Windows:**

.. code-block:: doscon

   cd <WorkDir>\sample
   ebms-partnership.bat

You will see the following message.

.. code-block:: none
   
   ----------------------------------------------------
         EBMS Partnership Maintainance Tool      
   ----------------------------------------------------
   Initialize logger .. 
   Importing EBMS partnership parameters ...
   Importing EBMS administrative sending parameters ... 
   Initialize EBMS HTTP data service client... 
   log4j:WARN No appenders could be found for logger    (org.apache.commons.httpclient.HttpClient).
   log4j:WARN Please initialize the log4j system properly.
   Sending    EBMS HTTP partnership maintenance request ... 
   
                       Sending Done:                   
   ----------------------------------------------------
   The result status : Operation executed successfully.
   Please view log for details .. 


Send Loopback Message
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Linux / Unix:**

.. code-block:: sh

   cd <WorkDir>/sample
   ./ebms-send.sh

**Windows:**

.. code-block:: doscon

   cd <WorkDir>\sample
   ebms-send.bat

This program sends a request attached with the payload named :file:`testpayload` under the directory :file:`<WorkDir>/sample/config/ebms-send` to local Hermes server. You will see the following message.

.. code-block:: none
   
   ----------------------------------------------------
             EbMS sender web service client            
   ----------------------------------------------------
   Initialize Logger ... 
   Importing  ebMS sending parameters ... ./config/ebms-send/ebms-request.xml
   Importing  ebMS partnership parameters ... ./config/ebms-partnership.xml
   Initialize ebMS web service client... 
   Adding     payload in the ebMS message... 
   Sending    ebMS sending request ... 
   
                       Sending Done:                   
   ----------------------------------------------------
   New message id: 20170204-090520-45900@172.17.0.3


Query Message History
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Linux / Unix:**

.. code-block:: sh

   cd <WorkDir>/sample
   ./ebms-history.sh

**Windows:**

.. code-block:: doscon

   cd <WorkDir>\sample
   ebms-history.bat

This program lists all sent and received messages. You will see the following message.

.. code-block:: none
   
   ----------------------------------------------------
            EbMS Message History Queryer      
   ----------------------------------------------------
   Initialize Logger ... 
   Importing  ebMS config parameters ... ./config/ebms-history/ebms-request.xml
   Initialize ebMS messsage history queryer ... 
   Sending ebMS message history query request ... 
   
                       Sending Done:                   
   ----------------------------------------------------
   ----------------------------------------------------
            EbMS Message Query Result          
   ----------------------------------------------------
   0	| Message id : 20170204-090520-45900@172.17.0.3 | MessageBox: outbox
   1	| Message id : 20170204-090520-45900@172.17.0.3 | MessageBox: inbox
   ----------------------------------------------------
   
   Select message (0 - 1), -1 to exit: 0


Enter :kbd:`0` to check the sent message and the following message will be displayed: 

.. code-block:: none
   
   Sending    EBMS-status sending request ... 

                    Sending Done:                   
   ----------------------------------------------------
   Query Message ID          : 20170204-090520-45900@172.17.0.3
   Query Message Status      : DL
   Query Message Status Desc : Message was sent.
   ACK   Message ID          : null
   ACK   Message Status      : null
   ACK   Message Status Desc : null
   
   ----------------------------------------------------
   
   Please view log for details .. 


Download Payload of Received Message
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Linux / Unix:**

.. code-block:: sh

   cd <WorkDir>/sample
   ./ebms-history.sh


**Windows:**

.. code-block:: doscon

   cd <WorkDir>\sample
   ebms-history.bat

You will see the following message.

.. code-block:: none
   
   ----------------------------------------------------
            EbMS Message History Queryer      
   ----------------------------------------------------
   Initialize Logger ... 
   Importing  ebMS config parameters ... ./config/ebms-history/ebms-request.xml
   Initialize ebMS messsage history queryer ... 
   Sending ebMS message history query request ... 
   
                       Sending Done:                   
   ----------------------------------------------------
   ----------------------------------------------------
            EbMS Message Query Result          
   ----------------------------------------------------
   0	| Message id : 20170204-090520-45900@172.17.0.3 | MessageBox: outbox
   1	| Message id : 20170204-090520-45900@172.17.0.3 | MessageBox: inbox
   ----------------------------------------------------
   
   Select message (0 - 1), -1 to exit: 1
   Currrent Dir: /home/cecid/WorkDir/sample
   Please provide the folder to store the payload(s): 
   Initialize ebMS receiving web service client... 
   Sending    ebMS receiving request ... for 20170204-090520-45900@172.17.0.3
   ----------------------------------------------------
   
   Please view log for details .. 

#. Enter :kbd:`1` to select the received message and you will be asked to the folder to store the payloads. 

#. Press enter to save the payload in the current folder. A file named :file:`ebms.{<timestamp>}@127.0.1.1.Payload.0` will be downloaded, where :file:`{<timestamp>}` indicates the time :program:`ebms-send` was executed. 

#. Open the payload file and you will see the following content:

.. code-block:: none

   This is an sample message.
   
                     :#+,                                               
                    +'++                                                
                  ,++'+                                                 
                 ++'+#`                                                 
               ;+''++             `           `           `             
              #++''+;`        `++++` ``,:;::   `,::::  ++  ;+'++;       
            ;++''+++         '++++#` `;:;;;;  `;;;;;;  ++  ;'+++++:     
           +'''''++:``;;;:   +#`     ,;;     `::,      ++  ;+   `+#     
          +''''''''  ;:;;;: ;+:      ;;``     ;;`      ++  ;+`   ++`    
         ,+'+''''++ .:;:;;; ;+.     `;;,.,,, `;;`      ++  ;+    ;'.    
         ''+''''''+`,;;;::;`'+......`;::;;;;`.;;``..`.`+#``;+``..:+:`..`
         `++'''+'++ `;;;;;; ''`      :;.```` `:;       ++  ;+`   :'.    
          ;'''+'''+` ;::;;. :':`     ;; `     ;;       ++  ;+    +'`    
           :+'+'+''+  .,,` ` ++`     ::,````  ::,````  ++  ;+   .+#     
         `   #'+'''+`        ''++++` `;;;:;;  `;;:;;;  ++  ;'+++++,`    
              ,++'''#         .;;''`   .:::,`  `,:::,  ''  :'''';       
                +'+''; `                          `                     
                `,+''',                                                 
                   '''+.                                                
                    `+++`                                               
                     :+:     
                     
   This is an sample message.
